[docs][update] Add docs for rollouts v3 (#32165)
expo/expo: docs/pages/eas-update/rollouts.mdx

---
title: Rollouts

> description: Incrementally deploy updates to your users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to incrementally deploy updates to your users by using a rollout mechanism.
```

Let's expand this description to add the context about using a rollout mechanism.

---

import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

A rollout allows you to roll out a change to a portion of your users in order to catch bugs or other issues before releasing that change to all your users.

> EAS provides two rollout mechanisms depending on your use case:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EAS provides **pre-update and branch-based rollout mechanisms** to suit your use case.
```

Instead of using a colon here, let's add those mechanisms here.

## Per-update rollouts

This rollout mechanism allows you to specify a percentage of users that should recieve a new update when you publish it, and then increase that percentage gradually afterwards.

> <Collapsible summary="How to use">

Reviewer: Not sure why we need collapsibles in both sections. IMO this makes the doc difficult to scan since as the reader, I am already seeing the instructions in the ToC:

![CleanShot 2024-10-22 at 01 35 01@2x](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c5ff89d9-da19-4ed5-8606-019412a696ef)

This pattern doesn't allow me to quickly scan the document and adds an extra click to uncollapse. Also, removing the collapsible would eliminate the need to explain "how to use" each mechanism.

### Starting a rollout

> To start a update-based rollout, add the `--rollout-percentage` flag to your normal `eas update` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start an update-based rollout, add the `--rollout-percentage` flag to your normal `eas update` command:
```

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas update --rollout-percentage=10']} />

In this example, when published, the update will only be available to 10% of your end users.

### Progressing a rollout

To edit the percentage of an update-based rollout:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas update:edit']} />

You will be guided through the process of selecting the update to edit and asked for the new percentage.

### Ending a rollout

When ending an update-based rollout, you have two options:
- **Roll out fully**: To accomplish this end state, progress the rollout as detailed above and set the percentage to 100.
- **Revert**: To accomplish this end state, republish the previous update by using the `eas update:republish` command.

### Working with rollouts

- Only one update can be rolled out on a branch at one time.
- To see the state of the rollout, use the `eas update:list` or `eas update:view` commands.

</Collapsible>

## Branch-based rollouts

This rollout mechanism allows you to incrementally roll out a set of updates on a new branch to a percentage of end users and leave the remaining percentage of users on the current branch.

<Collapsible summary="How to use">

### Starting a rollout

> To start a branch-based rollout, run the following command in the EAS CLI:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start a branch-based rollout, run the following EAS CLI command:
```

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas channel:rollout']} />

In the terminal, an interactive guide will assist you in selecting a channel, choosing a branch for the rollout, and setting the percentage of users for the rollout. To increase or decrease the rollout amount, run the command again and choose the `Edit` option to adjust the rollout percentage.

### Ending a rollout

Two methods are available to end a rollout when you choose the `End` option in the interactive guide:

> - **Republish and revert:** This option can be used once you are confident with the state of the new branch. This will republish the latest updatefrom the new branch to the old branch, and all users will then be pointed to the old branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Republish and revert:** Use this option when you are confident with the state of the new branch. This will republish the latest update from the new branch to the old branch, and all users will be pointed to the old branch.
```
